This is (S)imple (P)erl6 (I)nstaller README.

SPI has form of single Makefile file and was written to assist in building and system
wide installing Parrot and Rakudo projects. In truth, it is just adapter for Parrot
and Rakudo build systems but still helps in repeated build/install proces.

Currently it allows to:

- download Parrot and Rakudo sources from repositories
- build and install
- test Rakudo
- helps in:
	- automatical building packages, eg. .deb, .rpm, .tgz (with checkinstall)
	- getting list of installed files (with installwatch) 

Parrot version checkouted from repo is suitable for building Rakudo or newest version
with 'just-parrot' target.

Parrot installs everything system wide (into configurable IDIR) by default or into Rakudo
source directory with 'fast' target (eg. for Rakudo Perl6 implementation testing).

Rakudo is installed into Parrot install location.

FOR IMPATIENTS

To downloads, buids and installs into /usr/local:

	make parrot && make install-parrot && make rakudo && install-rakudo


INSTALATION

Place Makefile somewhere and configure SDIR and IDIR varibles at top of the file.

- SDIR is directory where download sources will be located and where everything
	will be compiled. By default it is /usr/src.

- IDIR is place where everything will be installed, by default it is /usr/local.

Additionally you can tune (PARROT|RAKUDO)_BUILD_OPTS according to your needs.

USAGE

make all
	Gets, builds and installs Parrot, then gets, builds and installs Rakudo. Installation
	goes to IDIR so be sure you set it acording to your needs (/usr/local by default).
	
	You can make installation step-by-step with targets below. If you want to build
	packages you should try installwatch-* or checkinstall-* targets for projects
	installation.

make parrot
	Gets and builds Parrot version suitable for building Rakudo

make rakudo
	Gets and builds Rakudo, master branch. By default it will look for Parrot
	installation in IDIR

make fast
	Gets and builds Rakudo, master branch. Before building it gets, builds and
	installs Parrot into Rakudo subdir then build Rakudo using that Parrot
	installation. IDIR varible is not used here, both projects instalations live
	in Rakudo dir in SDIR. Not adequate for system wide installation.

make just-parrot
	Gets and builds Parrot, newest version (HEAD)

make parrot-get
make rakudo-get
	Gets both, Parrot and Rakudo respectively

make parrot-build
make rakudo-build
	Builds Parrot and Rakudo respectively

make install
make parrot-install
make rakudo-install
	Installs both, Parrot and Rakudo respectively into IDIR. Building Rakudo requires
	ready Parrot installation so target 'install' exists mainly for completness. 


CLEANING TARGETS

make clean
make parrot-clean
make rakudo-clean
	Cleaning after building

make distclean
make parrot-distclean
make rakudo-distclean
	Cleaning after configuring and building

make wipe
make parrot-wipe
make rakudo-wipe
	Removes sources of both, Parrot and Rakudo respectively from SDIR. 


AUTOMATIC PACKAGE CREATION

For installing with checkinstall you should su root. Without this step packages will
not be installed system wide (but they will be created in project dir anyway).
 
make checkinstall-parrot
make checkinstall-rakudo

Installwatch do spy on syscals during installation proces and writes log file with results. We
place this log in SDIR. Installwatch is internally used by checkinstall.

make installwatch-parrot
make installwatch-rakudo

